1. What are the steps/strategies to do Active Listening? (Minimum 6 points)?

. Be fully present.  
. Listen to understand, not to respond.  
. Ask clarifying questions. 
. Paraphrase what the speaker has said.  
. Show empathy.  
. Be non-judgmental.


2. According to Fisher's model, what are the key points of Reflective Listening? (Write in your own words, use simple English)?
. Pay attention to the speaker's words, body language, and tone of voice.
. Reflect back to the speaker what you have heard, both in terms of content and feeling.
. Use open-ended questions to encourage the speaker to continue talking.
. Be empathetic and non-judgmental.



3. What are the obstacles in your listening process?
. Bacground Noise.
. Lots of Distraction like mobile phones.
. Lack of Context 
. Slang- I am not always familiar with slang terms which make me difficult to understand



4. What can you do to improve your listening?
. Be aware of my surrounding and  distaractions.
. Pay attention towards my work.
. Be patient. 
. And ask clarifying questions.



5. When do you switch to Passive communication style in your day to day life?
. when i am feeling overwhelming and stressed. 
. When i don't want to get engage in a conversation.
. I am dealing with the person who is more agressive.


6. When do you switch into Aggressive communication styles in your day to day life?
=> I don't easily get to agressive communication style i used to stay calm  but when someone starts disrespecting or abussing someone in front of me.
So it triggers me so much and when someone is talkiing to me very agressively and there is not my fault so to defend myself i use agressive communication style.



7.When do you switch into Passive Aggressive (sarcasm/gossiping/taunts/silent treatment and others) communication styles in your day to day life?
=> In daily life , I don't use as much passive agression communications styles but i use this style of communication  when i with my friends making fun of each other and sometime when i just get so much frustrated and don't know what to do next and when i don't want  do work of someone else.

8.How can you make your communication assertive? You can watch and analyse the videos, then think what would be a few steps you can apply in your own life? (Watch the videos first before answering this question.)?
. By speaking slowly and clearly.
. Be respecful to others.
. Use a firm tone of voice.
. 4. Be clear and direct in my conversation. 
. By making eye contact.







 
